At the Smithsonian's
Museum Conservation Institute,
imaging scientist, Keats Webb,
identifies pigments by capturing
how objects respond to light of different wavelengths.
So one of the benefits of imaging
is that it's a non-invasive technique
and it's giving you a full view of the object.
So it doesn't require sampling.
It's not destructive.
Having information about what pigments are in an object
can help provide information
about when and where that object might have been made.
Dr. Webb captures a test chart
of known pigments.
Pigments that look almost the same to us in visible light,
appear very different when they're imaged
in other wavelengths such as infrared or ultraviolet light.
At the Smithsonian National Museum of Asian Art,
Conservation Scientist Matthew Clarke identifies pigments
using a different technique, hyperspectral imaging.
One of the tools that we use here
is a hyperspectral imaging camera
that's gonna split up light into the different wavelengths
and measure that on the camera sensor.
So this particular camera
is going to capture a line of light
and it's gonna spread that line of light
across the chip of the camera.
So we're going to have a spectrum
from each section of that line.
The camera then is going to move along the surface,
and we'll keep collecting those lines
that then can all be assembled into a cube of data later
that we can examine and interpret
and use different specialized software
to interpret the data.
Now you too can analyze historic artworks
from our collection using advanced spectral imaging.
(light upbeat music)